h1. jcr_section_custom

Adds up to five extra custom fields of up to 255 characters to the "Presentation › Sections":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/sections-panel panel along with corresponding tags to output the custom field and to test if it contains a value or matches a specific value.

h3. Use cases

Use whenever extra information needs to be stored with a section. For example:

* Store a txp image ID number and use it to associate a cover image with the section.
* Store associated details, for example the background colour or key colour of a section.
* To use a different title for the menu than the section title.
* To create links between parallel sections in different languages.
* …


h2. Installation / Deinstallation / Upgrading

h3. Installation

Paste the @.txt@ installer code into the _Admin › Plugins_ panel, or upload the plugin's @.php@ file via the _Upload plugin_ button, then install and enable the plugin.

h3. Upgrading

The plugin automatically migrates custom field data and the database structure from the earlier single custom field variant (v0.1) to the new format. No changes are needed to the public tags as the new default settings correspond to the old tag. Nevertheless, it is always advisable to make a database backup before upgrading.

h3. De-installation

The plugin cleans up after itself: deinstalling (deleting) the plugin removes the extra columns from the database as well as custom field names and labels. To stop using the plugin but keep the custom field data in the database, just disable (deactivate) the plugin but don't delete it.


h2. Plugin tags

h3. jcr_section_custom

Outputs the content of the section custom field.

h4. Tag attributes

@name@
Specifies the name of the section custom field.
Example: Use @name="title_image"@ to output the title_image custom field. Default: jcr_sec_custom_1.

@escape@
Escape HTML entities such as @<@, @>@ and @&@ prior to echoing the field contents.
Supports extended escape values in txp 4.8
Example: Use @escape="textile"@ to convert textile in the value. Default: none.

@default@
Specifies the default output if the custom field is empty
Example: Use @default="123"@ to output "123", e.g. for use as the default image ID number. Default: empty.

@wraptag@
Wrap the custom field contents in an HTML tag
Example: Use @wraptag="h2"@ to output @<h2>Custom field value</h2>@. Default: empty.

@class@
Specifies a class to be added to the @wraptag@ attribute
Example: Use @wraptag="p" class="intro"@ to output @<p class="intro">Custom field value</p>@. Default: empty

h3. jcr_if_section_custom

Tests for existence of a section custom field, or whether one or several matches a value or pattern.

h4. Tag attributes

@name@
Specifies the name of the section custom field.
Example: Use @name="title_image"@ to output the title_image custom field. Default: jcr_sec_custom_1.

@value@
Value to test against (optional).
If not specified, the tag tests for the existence of any value in the specified section custom field.
Example: Use @value="english"@ to output only those sections whose “language” section custom field is english. Default: none.

@match@
Match testing: exact, any, all, pattern. See the docs for "if_custom_field":https://docs.textpattern.com/tags/if_custom_field.
Default: exact.

@separator@
Item separator for match="any" or "all". Otherwise ignored.
Default: empty.


h2. Examples

h3. Example 1

Outputs the specified title image from the image ID number. If no image is specified a default image with image ID# 123 is output:

bc. <txp:section_list>
  <txp:images id='<txp:jcr_section_custom name="title_image" escape="" default="123" />'>
     <txp:image />
  </txp:images>
</txp:section_list>

p. where the section custom field is used to store the Image ID# of the title image.

h3. Example 2

Outputs a menu of only those sections whose "language" custom field equals "english":

bc. <txp:section_list wraptag="ul" break="" class="nav en">
  <txp:jcr_if_section_custom name="language" value="english">
    <li><txp:section title link /></li>
  </txp:jcr_if_section_custom>
</txp:section_list>


h2. Custom field labels

The label displayed alongside the custom field in the edit image panel can be changed by specifying a new label using the _Install from Textpack_ field in the "Admin › Languages":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/languages-panel.html panel. Enter your own information in the following pattern and click *Upload*:

bc. #@owner jcr_section_custom
#@language en, en-gb, en-us
#@section
jcr_sec_custom_1 => Your label
jcr_sec_custom_2 => Your other label
…

p. replacing @en@ with your own language and @Your label@ with your own desired label.


h2. Changelog and credits

h3. Changelog

* Version 0.2.3 – 2020/12/18 – No new functionality. Textpack fixes and align with other custom field plugins
* Version 0.2.2 – 2020/06/27 – Handle migration from previous versions of the plugin on install
* Version 0.2.1 – 2020/06/27 – Fix for missing custom_field name vs. missing value for cf
* Version 0.2 – 2020/03/04 – Expand to handle multiple custom fields
* Version 0.1 – 2018/07/18 – Remedy table not being created on install
* Version 0.1 – 2016/03/04 – First release

h3. Credits

Robert Wetzlmayr’s "wet_profile":https://github.com/rwetzlmayr/wet_profile plugin for the starting point, and further examples by "Stef Dawson":http://www.stefdawson.com and "Jukka Svahn":https://github.com/gocom.